Project Plan
Submission 1
Canteen Managment System
Group Members: Nerissa Hinds-1041904
Joel Noel-1041303
Darell lyght-1041940
Renison Branch-1041672
Asiyyih Richards-1038881
Christiano Whyte
Date of Submission: 27th October,2022- 12pm

1.Introduction
The Canteen Management System project is intended to:

● Manage food wastage -during inventory and planning, the foods/snacks can be
reviewed, the items that the students dislike can be removed and replaced in the system
by items that students will love or enjoy.

● Keep an inventory for the canteen- all items being purchased can be kept in a
computerized system so subsequently you can monitor things you are falling short on
and you will be notified to stock up on said things or when there’s overabundance to take
the essential actions.
However with limited resources available there might be some constraints such as:

● We might have to go past our estimated budget as the hardware and software
requirements might be costly. Additionally we would need to pay to use the
software(MarketMan) for the canteen as the custom solution to the canteen managemnt
system.

● The initial time frame set out might be longer than expected just to acquire the hardware
required for the set up process.

● Technical constraints would also be an issue because there might be a backlog of
information if there’s a power outage, the canteen attendan(s) may have issues while
getting accustomed oh how to properly work or handle the barcode scanner which would
cause some delay. Bar code scanners could also be damaged if not handled properly
due to their low durability.

2.Project Organization
List of activities Roles/Responsbilities
Purchasing of eqquipment Administration
Installation of equipment Computer installation and repair technician
Training of canteen attendant on how to use
equipment
Computer installation and repair technician
Review/report on the functionality of the
Canteen Management System
Canteen Attendant

3.Risk Analysis
Risk Probability Effects

Due to the environment the barcode labels could be damage
causing the barcode scanner to not function
Moderate Serious
The institution wouldn't be able to fund the launch of the project
due high cost of implementing barcode scanners
High Catastrophic
Guyana tends to experience a lot of power outage because of
that the items wouldn’t have the opportunity to be scanned
Moderate Tolerable
Barcode scanners have low durability so it gets damaged easily
causing the scanner to not work
Low Tolerable
The staff members would need to be trained on how to use the
barcode scanner
High Serious

4. Hardware and software
A point of sale system or P.O.S for short is a suitable software/hardware for the monitoriation of
all the food regulations for the canteen, as it would help to regulate the food rotation thus
eliminating wastage.

Hardware- when it comes to hardware the suitable items would be; a hard drive ( this will help
store all the data) that would have been collected and would allow easy access whenever they
have to do an inventory check. A scanner would also be needed as it easier to scan goods more
specifically ( goods that have bar codes) as it would help to ease the strain of manually
documenting every product that was ordered. CPU and Monitor would also be needed as the
cpu would process all the information that the scanner has collected and store it in the hard
drive (note:the pc has to be able to run windows xp or higher) while the monitor would display
the software that you will use to keep track of everything. A keyboard would also be need to
inpu the data into the system.

Software- the most common software that would be used is microsoft excel, as it is free (via
online usage) and somewhat easy to use. However when you consider the scale of all the
inventory you will have to track while also recording what is the best seller and what is the least,
excel would be an inadequate tool to use and that is MarketMan would be the recommended
software for this system as a custom solution to the canteen managemnt system and it help to
track all the stocks that are available (thus if you are running low it will also notify you).
MarketMan would also be able to provide the annual sale of a product i.e if the demand of the
product is increasing or decreasing thus the staff would make the decision as to supply more of
the product or discontinue the sale of it. To note,MarketMan much like other softwares requires
a subscription to be used. Internet access is a requirement as the software requires the internet
to make updates on inventory along with the windows system which would need to be updated
periodically.

5.Work Break down
The project's goals would include keeping track of the most and least popular snacks and
meals, as well as reducing food waste by serving and creating menu items that are sure to be
popular. The canteen attendant would need to enter the list of purchased items into the
database, track sales over time, and categorize items by least and most sold in order to reach
the first milestone. Secondly, the canteen employee would make purchases based on sales and
would compile a survey to be given to students to get their feedback on their preferred foods
and snacks. An updated price list and an electronic lunch menu would be the deliverables to the
students.

6. Project Schedule

References
Sommerville, I. (2016) Software Engineering. 10th Edition, Pearson Education Limited, Boston.
King,Mary(2021) 7 best Restaurant Inventory Managment Software for 2022.
https://fitsmallbusiness.com/restaurant-inventory-management-software/
Pontius,Nicole(2022) 4 Types of Inventory Control Systems: Perpetual Vs. Periodic Inventory
Control and the Inventory Management Systems That Supports Them.
https://www.camcode.com/blog/inventory-control-systems-types/#Barcode
